# Paid Search Campaign Analysis
## Overview
Conducted analysis in SQL and Python to surface insights on campaign performance and budget optimization for a paid search campaign dataset contanining data of a 5-months shopping mall’s marketing efforts. Worked independently for one week to clean, wrangle, and analyze the data, identifying key trends related to ROAS, CTR, and conversion rates. Built an interactive dashboard in Tableau to visualize trends related to ad types and periods. Surfaced actionable insights and recommendations for the marketing team, focusing on budget reallocation, high-performing keywords, and time-based targeting strategies to maximize ROAS and improve customer acquisition.

## Tools and Technologies
- SQL: PostgreSQL for data cleaning, transformation, and querying.
- Python: Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, and Seaborn for data analysis and visualization.
- Visualization: Tableau for creating interactive dashboards.
- Version Control: GitHub for project documentation and code sharing.

## Dataset
Source: [Shopping Mall Paid Search Campaign Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/marceaxl82/shopping-mall-paid-search-campaign-dataset)

Description: The dataset contains information about the ad group advertising, clicks, conversions, impressions, revenues and costs with the following columns:
- `Ad Group`: category of the advert (coupon/promo code, desktop ad/mobile ad etc…)
- `Month`: month of the campaign. The campaign started in July 2021 and ended in November 2021.
- `Impressions`: metric used in digital marketing to quantify the number of digital views or engagements of an advertisement. Impressions are also referred to as an "ad view.
- `Clicks`: how many clicks the ad received
- `CTR`: Click Through Rate, the number of clicks that your ad receives divided by the number of times your ad is shown: clicks ÷ impressions = CTR.
- `Conversions`: Conversions are those valuable actions that users take on your site like buying something or filling in a form. The success can be measured in the number of conversions generated at a particular cost.
- `Conv Rate`: Conversion Rate. It is the percentage of people who convert after clicking on your ads. Depending on your goals, a conversion may mean they make a purchase, complete a contact form, request a free trial, or take another desired action.
- `Cost`: Cost is the actual money spent by the advertiser (the "shop") for the related ad group.
- `CPC`: Cost Per Click, it is the cost of the specific ads divided by the click. It is one of the metrics used to evaluate the effectiveness of the campaign in terms of ROI (Return on Investment), therefore a low or decreasing CPC is better than a high or increasing CPC.
- `Revenue`: Revenue is the total amount of income generated by advertisment.
- `Sale Amount`: Sale Amount for this dataset means the quantity of sales derived by the single ad group.
- `P&L`: Profit and Loss, based on the formula Revenue - Cost. For this dataset mesaures the profit of the specific Ad Group.

## Project Workflow


## Dashboard Creation


## Key Insights


## Project Structure


## Future Enhancement


## Contact
For questions or feedback, feel free to reach out:
- Name: Deddy Laudryansyah Putra
- Email: ldeddy25@gmail.com
- LinkedIn: [@deddyl](https://www.linkedin.com/in/deddyl/)
- GitHub: [deddylx](https://github.com/deddylx)
